Bhumi guides action view overview (#4)
bhumi1102/rails: guides/source/action_view_overview.md

What is Action View?
--------------------

Action View is the V in [MVC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller). [Action Controller](action_controller_overview.html) and Action View work together to handle web requests. Action Controller is concerned with communicating with the model layer (of MVC) and retrieving data. Action View is then responsible for compiling a response to the web request using that data.

Action View templates (also referred to simply as "views") are written using Embedded Ruby (ERB), which allows using Ruby code within HTML documents.

Action View provides many [helper](#helpers) classes for dynamically generating HTML tags for forms, dates, and strings. It's also possible to add custom helpers to your application as needed.

> NOTE: Some features of Action View are tied to Active Record, but that doesn't mean Action View depends on Active Record. Action View is an independent package that can be used with any sort of Ruby libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Some features of Action View are tied to Active Record, but that doesn't mean Action View depends on Active Record. Action View is an independent package that can be used with any Ruby library.
```

> NOTE: Some features of Action View are tied to Active Record, but that doesn't mean Action View depends on Active Record. Action View is an independent package that can be used with any Ruby library.

Reviewer 2: Just realized that we should probably change this to Active Model, since all the integration points have been extracted... i.e. it's no longer Active Record that those features are tied to, but Active Model.

```suggestion
NOTE: Some features of Action View are tied to Active Model, but that doesn't mean Action View depends on Active Model. Action View is an independent package that can be used with any Ruby library.
```

Author: Good call. I didn't know that!

Using Action View with Rails
----------------------------

> Action View templates (aka "views") are stored in a subdirectory in the `app/views` directory. There is a subdirectory matching the name of each controller. The view files inside that subdirectory are used to render specific views as a response to controller actions. The template files follow a naming convention.

Reviewer 3: It feels like the point of the code example below is related more to where the views are generated, and less about the naming convention. So this sentence feels early: 'The template files follow a naming convention.' Maybe move lower?

> For example, when we use scaffolding to generate an `article` resource, Rails generate the following files in `app/views/articles`:

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: Link to scaffolding: https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v3.1/getting_started.html#getting-up-and-running-quickly-with-scaffolding

      [...]
```

> The naming convention is that the views share their name with the associated controller action. For example the `index.html.erb`, `edit.html.erb`, etc. above.

Reviewer 3: Instead of 'The naming convention is that the views...'
Suggestion: 'Following Rails convention, views share their name with the associated controller action.'

      [...]
```

> The naming convention is that the views share their name with the associated controller action. For example the `index.html.erb`, `edit.html.erb`, etc. above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The naming convention is that the views share their name with the associated controller action. For example, the `index.html.erb`, `edit.html.erb`, etc. above.
```

Author: reworded this

The final HTML returned to the client is composed of a combination of the `.html.erb` ERB file, a layout template that wraps it, and all the partials that the ERB file may reference. In the rest of this guide, you will find more details about each of the three components: `Templates`, `Partials`, `Layouts`.

Templates
---------

Action View templates can be written in different formats. If the template file has a `.erb` extension, it uses embedded Ruby to build a HTML response. If the template has a `.jbuilder` extension, it uses the [Jbuilder](https://github.com/rails/jbuilder) gem to build a JSON response. And a template with a `.builder` extension uses the [`Builder::XmlMarkup`](https://github.com/jimweirich/builder) library to build an XML response.

Rails uses the file extension to distinguish among multiple template systems. For example, an HTML file using the ERB template system will have `.html.erb` as a file extension.

### ERB

> When Rails processes the ERB view templates ending with `.html.erb`, it evaluates the embedded Ruby code and replaces the ERB tags with their respective outputs. The dynamic content generated by evaluating the embedded Ruby code is combined with the static HTML markup to form the final HTML response.

Reviewer 3: This section can be a lot more simple-speak. I remember in our bootcamp my teacher explaining it something like (paraphrasing): "An ERB template is a way to sprinkle a bit of Ruby code in amongst static HTML by using `<% %>` and `<%= %>` tags. 
The `<% %>` tags are used for embedding Ruby code without directly outputting the result, while `<%= %>` tags are used when you want to show the output of the code on the page."

</div>
```

> Below is a full-length RSS example actually used on Basecamp:

Reviewer 3: Do you think this is better left out? I think it's nice to see a real world example.

Author: I took it out as this is a less common type of template and didn't want readers to get lost in trying to read this xml example that isn't super relevant to understanding Action Views. Added a link to the Builder gem for more example as Carlos suggested. I think that should cover it. But if you feel strongly, let me know I can add the RSS example back in.

By default, Rails will compile each template to a method to render it. In the development environment, when you alter a template, Rails will check the file's modification time and recompile it.

> There is also Fragment Caching for when different parts of the page need to be cached and expired separately. Learn more about it in the [caching](caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching) guide.

Reviewer: (Nitpick, non-blocking): Should this be linked with the word 'guide'

```suggestion
There is also Fragment Caching for when different parts of the page need to be cached and expired separately. Learn more about it in the [caching guide](caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching).
```

Partials
--------

Partial templates - usually just called "partials" - are a way of breaking up the view templates into smaller reusable chunks. With partials, you can extract a piece of code from your main template to separate smaller files and render that file in the main template. You can also pass data to the partial files from the main template.

Let's see this in action with some examples:

### Rendering Partials

To render a partial as part of a view, you use the [`render`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/RenderingHelper.html#method-i-render) method within the view:

```erb
<%= render "product" %>
```

This will render a file named `_product.html.erb` within that view. Partial file names start with leading underscore character by convention. The file name distinguishes partials from regular views. However, no underscore is used when referring to partials for rendering within a view. This is true even when you reference a partial from another directory:

```erb
<%= render "application/product" %>
```

> That code will look for a partial file named `_product.html.erb` in `app/views/application/`.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: "will look for **and display** a partial file..."

<%= render "application/footer" %>
```

Here, the `_ad_banner.html.erb` and `_footer.html.erb` partials could contain content that is shared among many pages in your application. You don't need to see the details of these sections when you're focused on a Products' page.

The above example also uses the `_product.html.erb` partial. This partial contains details for rendering an individual product and is used to render each product in the collection `@products`.

> ### Partial Template Inheritance

Author: Yup. Yeah this has been a bit of back and forth for me, about all the "Partial
" related sections. But this _specific_ section "Partial Template Inheritance" is clear that it does *not* belong up here, in this location in the guide. It can just be in Layouts and Rendering and I may mention a little something about "template inheritance" at the *bottom* of this guide. But nothing about inheritance needs to up here.

<%= render "application/footer" %>
```

Here, the `_ad_banner.html.erb` and `_footer.html.erb` partials could contain content that is shared among many pages in your application. You don't need to see the details of these sections when you're focused on a Products' page.

The above example also uses the `_product.html.erb` partial. This partial contains details for rendering an individual product and is used to render each product in the collection `@products`.

### Passing Data to Partials With `locals` Option

When rendering a partial, we can pass data to the partial from the rendering view. We use the `locals:` options hash for this. Each key in the `locals:` option is available as a partial-local variable:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/show.html.erb %>

<%= render partial: "product", locals: { my_product: @product } %>

<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(my_product) do %>
  <h1><%= my_product.name %></h1>
<% end %>
```

> A "partial-local variable" is a variable that is local to a given partial and only available from within that partial. In the above example, `my_product` is a partial-local variable. It was assigned the value of @product when passed to the partial from the original view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A "partial-local variable" is a variable that is local to a given partial and only available from within that partial. In the above example, `my_product` is a partial-local variable. It was assigned the value of `@product` when passed to the partial from the original view.
```

> Note that typically we'd simply call this local variable `product`. We are using `my_product` to distinguish it from the instance variable name and template name.

Reviewer 2: Minor: Just to make it clearer that it's for this example that we're showing a different name:

```suggestion
Note that typically we'd simply call this local variable `product`. We are using `my_product` to distinguish it from the instance variable name and template name in this example.
```

> Since `locals` is a hash, you can pass in multiple variables as need like `locals: { my_product: @product, my_reviews: @reviews }`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since `locals` is a hash, you can pass in multiple variables as needed, like `locals: { my_product: @product, my_reviews: @reviews }`.
```

<% end %>
```

Another example from Active Storage's `_blob.html.erb`. This one sets the size based on whether `in_gallery` local variable is set when rendering the partial that contains this line:

```html+erb
<%= image_tag blob.representation(resize_to_limit: local_assigns[:in_gallery] ? [ 800, 600 ] : [ 1024, 768 ]) %>
```

### `render` without `partial` and `locals` Options

In the above examples, `render` takes 2 options: `partial` and `locals`. But if
these are the only options you need to use, you can skip the keys, `partial` and `locals` and specify the values only.

For example, instead of:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: @product } %>
```

You can write:

```erb
<%= render "product", product: @product %>
```

You can also use this shorthand based on conventions:

```erb
<%= render @product %>
```

This will look for a partial named `_product.html.erb` in `app/views/products/`, as well as pass a local named `product` set to the value `@product`.

### The `as` and `object` Options

By default, objects passed to the template are in a local variable with the same name as the template. So, given:

```erb

> <%= render partial: "product" %>

Reviewer 2: I'm wondering if we should change this to just:

```suggestion
<%= render @product %>
```

i.e., the shorter example using the convention explained on the previous section... this removes any "inference" from the example and makes it simpler / more explicit.

Author: Yes because we *just* explained it, I think the shorthand is cleaner in this example.

`app/views/products/_ad_banner.html.erb` before falling back to
`app/views/application/_ad_banner.html.erb`.

### Passing Data to Partials With `locals` Option

> When rendering a partial, we can pass data to the partial from the rendering view. We use the `locals:` options hash for this. Each key in the `locals:` option is available as a partial-local variable:

Reviewer 3: With phrases like 'rendering view' and 'partial-local variable' this section really made me stumble. 

I also easily overlooked that `locals` is a hash, so can we add another key to the examples to show that using `locals` gives you flexibility? Maybe price and/or category?

Suggestion (or something like): 
When rendering a partial, we can pass data to the partial from the rendering view. We use the `locals:` options hash for this. Each key in the `locals:` option is available as a partial-local variable, in other words: a variable that is only accessed when that specific partial is being called.

In the above example, my_product is the local variable available in the partial. It was assigned the value of @product in the original view. 

This allows you to reuse the _product.html.erb partial across different views while customizing the product data displayed each time. 

If a template refers to a variable that isn't passed into the view as part of the locals: option, the template will raise an ActionView::Template::Error. A partial-local variable only works in the context of the partial in which it is defined.

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(product) do %>
  <h1><%= product.name %></h1>

  <%# => raises ActionView::Template::Error for `product_reviews` %>
  <% product_reviews.each do |review| %>
    <%# ... %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

### Using `local_assigns`

> There is a helper method [local_assigns][] available in each partial. You can access each key in the `locals:` option using this method. The value of `local_assigns[:some_key]` will be `nil` if the partial was not rendered with `:some_key` set.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to simplify: "Each partial has a helper method called local_assigns[]. You can use this method to access keys passed via the locals: option. If a key wasn't set when rendering the partial, local_assigns[:some_key] will return nil."

Author: reworded

<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns[:product]          # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>" %>
<% local_assigns[:product_reviews]  # => nil %>
```

> One use case for `local_assigns` is optionally passing in a local variable and then conditionally doing something in the partial based on whether the local variable is set. For example:

Reviewer 3: Maybe replace "doing something" with "performing an action".

```html+erb
<% if local_assigns[:redirect] %>
  <%= form.hidden_field :redirect, value: true %>
<% end %>
```

Another example from Active Storage's `_blob.html.erb`. This one sets the size based on whether `in_gallery` local variable is set when rendering the partial that contains this line:

```html+erb
<%= image_tag blob.representation(resize_to_limit: local_assigns[:in_gallery] ? [ 800, 600 ] : [ 1024, 768 ]) %>
```

> ### `local_assigns` with Pattern Matching

Reviewer: If we removed it from here, would we move it to a different guide?

> ### `local_assigns` with Pattern Matching

Author: Agree. So far I have 3 sections that are on the 'advance' side - this one, strict locals, and inheritance. I am considering two options so far: 1. moving them towards the end of this guide and label them 'advance' in some way OR 2. move them to layouts and rendering guide and add a link to that section at the end of this section.

> ### `local_assigns` with Pattern Matching

Reviewer 2: Sounds good. Personally I'd lean towards 2., but you will see if which makes the most sense as you work through both.

### `render` without `partial` and `locals` Options

In the above examples, `render` takes 2 options: `partial` and `locals`. But if
these are the only options you need to use, you can skip the keys, `partial` and `locals` and specify the values only.

For example, instead of:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: @product } %>
```

You can write:

```erb
<%= render "product", product: @product %>
```

You can also use this shorthand based on conventions:

```erb
<%= render @product %>
```

This will look for a partial named `_product.html.erb` in `app/views/products/`, as well as pass a local named `product` set to the value `@product`.

### The `as` and `object` Options

> By default `ActionView::Partials::PartialRenderer` has its object in a local variable with the same name as the template. So, given:

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need to be explicitly about `ActionView::Partials::PartialRenderer`, it's probably irrelevant implementation detail for the guide.

<%= render partial: @products, spacer_template: "product_ruler" %>
```

Rails will render the `_product_ruler.html.erb` partial (with no data passed to it) between each pair of `_product.html.erb` partials.

### Counter Variables

Rails also makes a counter variable available within a partial called by the collection. The variable is named after the title of the partial followed by `_counter`. For example, when rendering a collection `@products` the partial `_product.html.erb` can access the variable `product_counter`. The variable indexes the number of times the partial has been rendered within the enclosing view, starting with a value of `0` on the first render.

> ```erb
> # index.html.erb
> <%= render partial: "product", collection: @products %>
> ```
> 
> ```erb
> # _product.html.erb
> <%= product_counter %> # 0 for the first product, 1 for the second product...
> ```

Reviewer 2: Since these ERB, we might have to comment using the tags too for proper highlighting:

<details><summary>Details</summary>
<p>

_before_
<img width="643" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-27 at 11 23 46" src="https://github.com/bhumi1102/rails/assets/26328/c23d151b-2db8-4a66-ab05-d1dc58f3b5ae">

_after_
<img width="657" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-27 at 11 26 31" src="https://github.com/bhumi1102/rails/assets/26328/fbb3868f-25a6-40e2-98a5-b9d44d33ca21">

</p>
</details> 

````suggestion
```erb
<%# index.html.erb %>
<%= render partial: "product", collection: @products %>
```

```erb
<%# _product.html.erb %>
<%= product_counter %> # 0 for the first product, 1 for the second product...
```
````

### `local_assigns` with Pattern Matching

Since `local_assigns` is a `Hash`, it's compatible with [Ruby 3.1's pattern matching assignment operator](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/syntax/pattern_matching_rdoc.html):

```ruby
local_assigns => { product:, **options }
product # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>"
options # => {}
```

When keys other than `:product` are assigned into a partial-local `Hash`
variable, they can be splatted into helper method calls:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns => { product:, **options } %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(product), **options do %>
  <h1><%= product.name %></h1>
<% end %>

<%# app/views/products/show.html.erb %>

<%= render "products/product", product: @product, class: "card" %>
<%# => <div id="product_1" class="card">
  #      <h1>A widget</h1>
  #    </div>
%>
```

Pattern matching assignment also supports variable renaming:

```ruby
local_assigns => { product: record }
product             # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>"
record              # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>"
product == record   # => true
```

> Since `local_assigns` returns a `Hash` instance, you can conditionally read a variable, then fall back to a default value when the key isn't part of the `locals:` options:

Reviewer 2: We mention "local assigns is/returns a Hash" at the beginning of this section, we might be able to skip it again here:

```suggestion
You can also conditionally read a variable, then fall back to a default value when the key isn't part of the `locals:` options, using `fetch`:
```

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns.fetch(:related_products, []).each do |related_product| %>
  <%# ... %>
<% end %>
```

Combining Ruby 3.1's pattern matching assignment with calls to [Hash#with_defaults](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Hash.html#method-i-with_defaults) enables compact partial-local default variable assignments:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns.with_defaults(related_products: []) => { product:, related_products: } %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(product) do %>
  <h1><%= product.name %></h1>

  <% related_products.each do |related_product| %>
    <%# ... %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

> INFO: By default, partials will accept any `locals` as keyword arguments. To define what `locals` a partial accepts, use a `locals:` magic comment. To learn more, read about [Strict Locals](#strict-locals).

Reviewer 2: Since we end this section on local assigns + pattern matching with a hook to strict locals, maybe if we reverse the order of them, it'd be a bit more natural flow?

Author: Oh I like that!

<%= message %>
```

> The above makes `message` a required local variable. Rendering the partial without a `:message` local variable argument will raise an exception:

Reviewer 3: This part confuses me. It says above that `message` is required but below that it is missing, so will raise an error?

Author: The above is a partial that needs to be passed the `message` when it is rendered. Below we are trying to render the partial *without* passing in `message` hence the error. The point this is trying to make is that it is an error to render partials without passing in required locals (as declared in the partial file itself with that magic comment). Does that make sense? Let me know if not and I will try to see if there is a way to reword or rearrange something in the examples...

```ruby
render "messages/message"
# => ActionView::Template::Error: missing local: :message for app/views/messages/_message.html.erb
```

> If a default values is set then it can be used if `message` is not passed in `locals:`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a default value is set then it can be used if `message` is not passed in `locals:`:
```

<%= message %>
```

Rendering the partial without a `:message` local variable uses the default value set in the `locals:` magic comment:

```ruby
render "messages/message"
# => "Hello, world!"
```

Rendering the partial with local variables not specified in the `local:` magic comment will also raise an exception:

```ruby
render "messages/message", greeting: "will raise"
# => ActionView::Template::Error: missing local: :greeting for app/views/messages/_message.html.erb
```

You can allow optional local variable arguments with the double splat `**` operator:

```erb

<%# app/views/messages/_message.html.erb %>

<%# locals: (message: "Hello, world!", **attributes) -%>
<%= tag.p(message, **attributes) %>
```

> If you set the `locals:` to empty `()`, partial local variable are disabled entirely:

Reviewer 3: To simplify, a suggestion: "Or you can disable `locals` entirely by setting the `locals:` to empty `()`:"

> Layouts

Reviewer 2: Not sure how you're thinking about structuring this vs the layouts and rendering guide, but it might make sense to consider having at least a basic example of how an application layout looks like, for the sake of giving an introduction/overview to it here.

Author: Good idea. Added an example with a simple layout and explain that the view content is rendered in place of the `<%= yield %>`

-------

Layouts can be used to render a common view template around the results of Rails controller actions. A Rails application can have multiple layouts that pages can be rendered within. 

For example, an application might have one layout for a logged in user and another for the marketing part of the site. The logged in user layout might include top-level navigation that should be present across many controller actions. The sales layout for a SaaS app might include top-level navigation for things like "Pricing" and "Contact Us" pages. Different layouts typically have a different header and footer content. 

> 

Reviewer 3: "Different layouts typically have a different header and footer content." Is this correct? I often think of the header and footer being pretty consistent across a site...or at least the footer would be (I can see where a header would change).

Author: Yeah the example this is leading with talks about a "marketing site" vs. a "saas app" which would have different headers/footers. But I will change "typically" to something like "can have". So we are not implying anything about how typical this is.

> To find the layout for the current controller action, Rails first looks for a file in `app/views/layouts` with the same base name as the controller. For example, rendering actions from the PhotosController class will `use app/views/layouts/photos.html.erb` (or `app/views/layouts/photos.builder`). 

Reviewer 2: Should we maybe ignore the "builder" version in these examples, for the sake of simplicity? I've never seen/used a layout with "builder" templates (tbh I rarely used builder, long ago)

Reviewer 2: Just bringing this one back, not sure if you've seen it and maybe wanted to keep the reference(s)?

Author: No I missed that one! Agree and removed. I have yet to use "builder" :)

Thanks for bringing it up, I totally didn't see it the first round.

If such a controller-specific layout does not exist, Rails will use `app/views/layouts/application.html.erb` (or `app/views/layouts/application.builder`). Rails also provides more ways to assign specific layouts to individual controllers and actions. See [Layouts and Rendering guide](layouts_and_rendering.html#finding-layouts) for more.

> You can learn more about layouts in general in the [Layouts and Rendering in Rails](layouts_and_rendering.html) guide.

Reviewer 2: The two consecutive links to the layouts and rendering guide here seemed a bit odd on first reading... maybe we just leave this paragraph, and eliminate the previous "see... for more" portion?

Author: sure, yeah! I was trying to link to a specific section. But on second thought, I will refrain from that until layout and rendering sections are finalized. Then might come in there to add more links if needed as a follow on.

### Partial Layouts

Partials can have their own layouts applied to them. These layouts are different from those applied to a controller action, but they work in a similar fashion.

Let's say we're displaying an article on a page which should be wrapped in a `div` for display purposes. First, we'll create a new `Article`:

```ruby
Article.create(body: 'Partial Layouts are cool!')

> ```

Reviewer 2: We might be able to skip this "create an article" part, since we don't do anything similar in previous sections, we just assume there's this `@variable` in the template/partial.

Reviewer 3: Just a note from a beginner's POV - creating the article did help me understand this better.

Reviewer 2: My thinking is that this is one of the last examples of the guide, but the first one that actually shows the object creation -- all others simply infer there's an object / instance variable and use them in the many "render" examples (like `@product`, etc.).

Definitely don't mind keeping it, just felt slightly inconsistent with the rest of the examples. If we were to intro the guide with something like "let's create an object and use it as an example throughout the guide", that could make the flow more natural and consistent. Alternatively, we could replace the "article" usage in this example with "product" since we've been using that, and I think the same partial layout example would still make sense.

In the `show` template, we'll render the `_article` partial wrapped in the `box` layout:

```html+erb
<%# articles/show.html.erb %>
<%= render partial: 'article', layout: 'box', locals: { article: @article } %>
```

The `box` layout simply wraps the `_article` partial in a `div`:

```html+erb
<%# articles/_box.html.erb %>
<div class='box'>
  <%= yield %>
</div>
```

> Note that the partial layout has access to the local `article` variable that was passed into the `render` call. Though it is not being used within `_box.html.erb` in this case.

Reviewer 3: Note that the partial layout has access to the local `article` variable that was passed into the `render` call, although it is not being used within `_box.html.erb` in this case.

> Since Rails doesn't restrict the symbols that you use to set I18n.locale, you can leverage this system to display different content depending on anything you like. For example, suppose you have some "expert" users that should see different pages from "normal" users. You could add the following to `app/controllers/application_controller.rb`:

Reviewer 2: This I believe is no longer true, as I18n by default does validate the locales, you can't set it to "anything". The recommended way to achieve something like that would be to use `variants` nowadays. (though we probably can leave that to layouts & rendering, unless a gentle introduction here would makes sense.)

Author: By `variants` do you mean having views like `show.html+mobile.erb`?

I think I will remove this "anything you like" example. It does not feel relevant in this guide. The previous 2 paragraphs covey the main point that it's possible to render localized views. And then linking to the I18n guide at the end for more examples. Let me know if you feel differently, I can dig into the I18n guide and craft an example with variant.

Reviewer 2: Yeah that's what I mean about `variants`.

I think it's okay to remove this paragraph / example. 👍
